The Curse of the Rumiirua : Being the Journal of Jebidiah Halfwitch
reface, a warning from the author

ルミールアの呪い
ジェビディア・ハーフウィッチ 著
修復と、著者からの警告


Know this:
By taking and reading this book, it is up to you to stop the undead nightmare.
Consider this book the torch. And if you are reading it, consider the torch passed.
I wash my hands of it. Evil sorcerers, magic swords and other such nonsense.
It's all on you now. Good luck, fool.
Sincerely,
D. C.

：
この本を読み、アンデッドの悪夢を止めるかどうか貴方は次第だ。
この本はバトンだ。この本を読んだなら、バトンを誰かに渡すことも考えてほしい。
私はこの件から手を引く。邪悪な魔術師、魔法の剣なんて馬鹿げている。
これは今や貴方のものだ。おめでとう、愚か者。
敬具、
D. C.


		The Legacy of the Rumiirua

		or The Lord of the Dead

		(pick whichever title you like better)

		「ルミールアの遺産」または「死者の王」
		
		（好きな方を取ればいい）


			I left home that summer
			when I was just a boy
			and grief became my merriment
			and madness stole my joy

			私が生家を追われた夏は
			私はただの少年で
			悲しみが私の名誉になり
			狂気が私の喜びを奪った

You like that? I wrote it sitting by a campfire one night when my father and I were running the back trail of the Rumiirua. I used to dream I'd be a famous bard one day. I dreamt that my father would be proud. Now he's dead and there's no one left to care what I do.

I decided to call this The Legacy of the Rumiirua to keep it consistent with Jebidiah's journal, even though I prefer The Lord of the Dead. Jebidiah Halfwitch, curse that stupid bastard. If he had just hidden in his cellar like his wife wanted they would all still be alive. More to the point, he wouldn't have written his stupid journal and my family might also be alive. My father at least, is what I mean. My mother and sister were already gone when my father found Jebidiah's book.

I imagine all kinds of people have written accounts of what happened that first night and every night since. Every day as well, for that matter. Everyone wants to leave behind some kind of legacy. 

In that respect, Jebidiah's journal was no different than dozens, maybe hundreds of other stories. Except Jebidiah's was the the one my father found. Well, that and the fact that Jebidiah had stumbled across a small bit of the truth of where these monsters came from. 

My father was a good man by the name of Sebastian Cain. He was a farmer like Jebidiah. And like Jebidiah, had lost all his family except me. He probably felt some sort of kinship to him. Some sympathy or pity. Or maybe just the need to succeed where Jebidiah had failed. In any case, Jebidiah's book set him on a path. 

But I guess that comes a bit later. I should start with the night when the dead rose, like Jebidiah did. Except I'll try to stay much more on point. Lord, could that man ramble on.

My name is Deckard, youngest of two brothers. 14 years old the day the dead came back. I had gone with my father into town for supplies that day. Feed, and a bit of lumber for rebuilding fences. We had a farm not far from Windhelm and were traveling back home on horseback pulling our cart around supper time when we saw the first of the dead. It was slowly stumbling along the side of the road by itself when we passed. We thought he was drunk. He moved to swipe at our horse, but was too far away and too slow. He simply lurched towards it and fell over. It was only later that we realized with horror what he must have been. At the time we just laughed at the stupid drunk. My father made some comment about pulling him off the road, but as we looked back he was already getting up.

We traveled on and forgot about it. About and hour later we began to pass a few homes and farms. The first few were totally silent, which didn't even occur to me then but later I realized we should have heard cows, chickens, horses, something. Then our horses began to spook. Nothing alarming, but you could tell they caught wind of something they didn't like. 

We came upon a homestead where, as we approached we could hear screaming and crying. My father and I exchanged a nervous glance. He stopped the horses and told me to wait with them while he went to see if he could help with something. I watched him walk to the front door and knock. Then, when there was no answer, he walked around the side of the house and out of my sight.

I sat and waited, concerned but not scared, as the horses fidgeted nervously . I don't know how long. Then my father came sprinting around the house in a mad panic. As a child, there are few things more terrifying than seeing a parent terrified. My father came sprinting around the corner so fast he lost his footing and almost fell. He caught himself one-handed and kept right on running. When he reached the horses, he jumped on and spurred the horses hard. We took off with a jolt as I asked my father repeatedly what had happened. He wouldn't answer, except to say we needed to get help. 

We rode like that for a while in silence. Then we began to pass other homes and farms. We heard cries from some of them and saw two men struggling in a field off in the distance. This went on for a few miles. Eventually my father looked at me with panic in his eyes. I asked again what was happening. He stopped the horses, jumped down and unhitched them from the cart. He climbed back on and told me to keep up. He said we were going to ride as fast as we could because we had to get home now.

We rode for what seemed like an eternity, but it was probably less than an hour. Along the way I began to understand that whatever was happening, it was happening everywhere. And that my mother and older brother were almost certainly in danger. It never occurred to me that we would not make it home in time.

When we arrived my father once again told me to wait with the horses, which I did briefly. But when I heard his anguished cry from inside I ran as hard as I could. As I reached for the door, what I saw literally took the wind from me. My father was on his knees, kneeling in a pool of blood, holding what was left of my mother to his chest. Her stomach was just a great empty hole with nothing in it. I could actually see her spine. 

This was the womb where I had grown. Now a gaping hole with gore and scraps of flesh hanging out. That didn't occur to me till later. At the moment I was just in shock and not capable of coherent thought. The rest of her seemed to be missing small pieces here and there. Bites, they looked like. My brother lay near by. He looked even worse. The sounds coming from my father were more horrifying than anything I had ever heard before. I've heard worse since, but not that night.

Months later, as I write this, looking back, it's all still crystal clear. The sight, every scrap of flesh. The blood everywhere. The smell, rotten meat and shit. But mostly the sounds. My father wailed and wept and drooled. Eventually he went into some kind of daze. Not quite passed out but close. 

I managed to pull him outside some time later. I was still numb, but I understood that he was in worse shape than me at that time. I had to take care of him. We slept up in the loft of our barn that night.

We burned them. This was some time the next day. My father came back around the next morning. Around sunrise. He was himself again. We burned the bodies in silence. Neither one of us knew any prayers. What would the point have been anyhow? 

My mother's name was Myriam. My brother was Jonas. There's nothing left of them now except their names recorded here. There's really nothing left of anything now. 

That was how it began. My father found new strength after that and set out to kill as many of those things as he could. Back then we still didn't really understand what they were of course. But we traveled and we killed. Oh yes, we. My father taught me well. Skinny fourteen-year-old with a sword and mace. My books put away and the farm forgotten. 

My father apparently had some previous combat experience he never discussed. Because he led us to a cache of weapons near our farm, took some for himself and some for me. The first time I saw him dispatch a group of the rotters, I was in awe. He told me I must learn. I was scared, but I grew accustomed to it as we all do eventually. 

We started out, moving slowly west. I have no idea why he picked that direction. Maybe it was the magic of seeing your shadow in the morning rising to meet you. Maybe it was the glare of the sunset blinding you. Either way, it just seemed to feel right. Or natural.

From time to time we would meet up with other survivors and travel a ways together. Picking off the rotters when we saw them. Sharing stories with them. 

The stories were always the same, drenched in gore and misery and loss. If you've lived long enough to read this, then you know. You've faced your share of loss and looked death in the face with blood still dripping from whatever weapons you've found or fashioned. That's what I'm counting on, of course. But I'm getting ahead of myself. 

There's no need for a complete recounting of events. We camped, we killed. On occasion we had just as much if not more trouble with other survivors than with the dead. Bad people exploiting a bad situation for their own gain. You could see it in their eyes sometimes. Just looking for an opportunity. That's why we traveled alone mostly. It's very unsettling sharing camp with people that seem to be sizing you up. To some, a man's life is worth less than the gear he's carrying. 

We probably would have had even more trouble if we were traveling with women. One time we came across a group of men that had women on chains and were leading them like dogs. They waved to us and asked if we wanted to barter. My father waved back and walked right into the middle of their group. Then he cut each of them down in mere seconds. It was over before I could fully comprehend what had happened. But the ground soaked up the blood quickly and soon they were just more dead scraps in a dead world.

He cut the women loose and gave them directions to the nearest village. They camped with us that night. My father didn't sleep at all as far as I know. I slept fitfully and each time I woke he was sitting guard. He sent them on their way the next morning. I have no idea if they ever made it to that village or not. Or what they found if they did. 

We were both very fortunate and very lucky to have survived some of these encounters. I guess I still underestimate my father's skill with a sword. We trained each day and I was improving, but I would never have his natural grace. 

Like I said, we traveled alone mostly. Slowly moving to the west. It didn't take too many uncomfortable encounters before we just avoided other groups instinctively. The road is a lonely place, and it goes on much longer than we will.

I guess this brings me to the old broken temple in Whiterun. And Jebidiah's journal. This would be a few months after the initial Rising. We found the journal in front of the alter while seeking shelter from the rain one night. It was lousy shelter. And considering everything since, I'd give anything if we'd just ridden the storm out. 	                     

But no, we stopped. My father picked up the book and became fascinated with it. I don't know why he picked it up to begin with. What did he think it was, a bible? What good would that do us? But he read it. Then he read it again. Then he had me read it. Then he read it again. Maybe fascinated was the wrong word. Maybe obsessed would be better. 

He told me it was now our responsibility to take the book to Jebidiah's sister-in-law. Sarah. He talked about her like he knew her. He said that people must know about the Rumiirua, the summoning, the Mage's guild. He thought the answer to their undoing was in that book. He was close to right, I guess. Funny how things work out.                                                              

Sarah lived in a village not far from Whiterun, and in the direction we were heading anyhow. My father thought this was providence. He said we were meant to find the journal and deliver it, and that with this information, the Rumiirua could be stopped. So we set out to find Sarah. That's when things really went to shit.

I guess the first thing to tell you is that we didn't find her. Well, pieces of her, I guess, no way of knowing for sure. It was just over a days journey, and when we arrived we found almost everyone in the town slaughtered. There were three survivors, I don't recall their names. A man, his sister, and another woman I'm not sure either of them really knew. 

They had survived the attack on their town by hiding in a cellar and barring the door. You hear that Jebidiah, you stupid bastard? The cellar! They hid in the cellar and they survived.

We asked about Sarah Halfwitch, assuming she had taken her husbands name, and were not disappointed. The man's sister told us where we could find the home. There was certainly no love for the Halfwitches from her. She spit on the ground every time she spoke the name. Something about the great-grandmother and where the family name came from presumably. 

We arrived at the home to find just what you'd expect, only slightly more decayed than we were used to. She and whoever had been with her (three others, judging by the mess), had been dead a long time. But someone else had been here since they were slaughtered. The words Southfringe Sanctum had been written on the wall in their blood. My father and I stared at it for a long time, neither of us speaking. Finally he hefted his pack, slung it over his shoulder, gave me a look and walked out the door. After a minute longer staring at the blood writing on the wall by myself, followed after him. There were no answers here. Only more questions. 

The three strangers we met were nowhere to be seen. We left as quietly as we had come. Moving to the south this time. My father must have felt some kind of depression at not being able to give the journal to Sarah. Maybe he felt some kind of burden now that the journal was his and there was no-one to pass it off to. I don't know, he never spoke of it. But he would read it each night at our camp fire. He would cling to it.

It occurred to me for the first time then that we never truly know our fathers. The lives they lived, the men they were before we came along. There's so much I never knew about him. No sense dwelling on that I suppose.

We moved to the south, through Riverwood, the Throat of the World looming to the east. We passed through Helgen and made our way to Southfringe Sanctum. It was a long journey, but at least we had a destination. We didn't see much in the way of the Rumiirua. But we saw the devastation everywhere. Almost no signs of life.

I'll spare you the details of our journey south other than to tell you the closer we got to Southfringe Sanctum, the more dread I began to feel. Who, after all, had written those words in blood on the wall? And why? And for whom? These were questions that, the closer we traveled to our destination, the less I wanted to know the answers.

We finally arrived in Southfringe to find nothing. Nothing new anyhow. Waste and destruction. What appeared to be a hastily abandoned military camp. My father said nothing. He just set about making camp.

We made our camp on the remains of theirs and built a fire. We were just turning in to sleep when we heard the voice. It was slow and wise, almost angelic.

'Sebastian Cain', it said. 'I have waited long for you. May I join you at your fire?'

My father was on his feet in an instant, sword already drawn. 'Show yourself, witch', he said looking around in all directions as if addressing the night itself.

'I am no witch' the voice said. 'And I mean you no harm. Will you put away your sword, or will you strike down the answers you seek?'

'How do you know my name?', my father challenged.

'I know much, and I see much. I have watched you for some time, Sebastian, Champion of Tamriel', the voice said. 'I know you are pure of heart. I know you would avenge your wife and child. And I know mostly, you would see this evil laid to rest, lest it consume everything. As it will if left unchecked'

'Then it was you who left the message in the Halfwitch home?', my father asked.

'It was indeed.'

My father did not sheath his sword, but he did lower it so that it pointed to the ground. 'Come then', he said. 'Join us at the fire'

She stepped out of the shadows like she was simply materializing into view. And in just a few steps was at the fire. I had never seen anything like her. She was beautiful and foreboding at the same time. She wore a strange headdress that seemed to merge with her clothing. It appeared to be a falcon. It was quite bizarre looking at her face and seeing the face of a bird just above it. The cloak was attached at her wrists and if she held her arms out it would appear that she had wings. Of course the whole ensemble was made of feathers. 

'You may put away your sword too, Young Deckard' she said as she turned to regard me.

I didn't even realize I had drawn it. I blushed as I lowered it. I hoped she wouldn't see it by the dying firelight, but suspected she would know anyhow.

'Fetch some more wood, boy' my father said.

Before I could even turn around to set about doing so, she simply waved her hand over the fire and it sprang to life. 'There's no need', she said. 'Come and sit'

It struck me as odd that she was inviting us to our own fire, but we both obeyed.

'My name', she said, 'is Teela-Na. I have come a great distance to find you.'

'Can you stop these creatures?', my father asked. No beating around the bush for him. Straight to it.

'No, I can not', she said. 'But you can. And I can help you.'

'These creatures you call Rumiirua, they were created by an evil wizard sometimes known as Keldor.' My father perked up at that name.

'Yes', she said. 'You know the name from Jebidiah's journal.'

'The traveler Russio met', my father agreed. 

'Keldor was admiring his handiwork, I imagine', she said. 'Spreading fear as well as death.' 

'How do you know him', my father asked.

'He and I both come from a world called Eternia.' My father nodded at this as if it confirmed what he suspected. 'You know most the story already from Jebidiah's book, what you need to know anyhow.'

'So this monster comes from your world, lays waste to ours, and you won't lift a finger to help?' I drew in a deep breath at this outburst from my father.

'I am the keeper and protector of a great power and a great secret on Eternia. It is my duty and purpose in life', she said. 'And I channel some of that power to do what must be done. Outside the walls of Cast- of my home, I do not have access to any of those powers.'

'My father gestured toward to roaring fire as if to say 'Then what is this shit?'

The mystical lady just smiled. 'Such simple conjurers tricks will do nothing to break the spell Keldor has cast. And I am essentially powerless in your world.'

My father seemed to accept this so she went on.

'Keldor found an ancient artifact we had thought was only a myth, called the Spellstone. He used it to animate the dead and set them on a warpath to the Mage's Guild, killing everything in their path, and leaving death in their wake. Increasing their numbers as they go. Even now the Mage's Guild is at war with them and they will not last long. Once the Mages are dead and the Rumiirua have no quest, they will simply wander and kill until there is nothing left of Tamriel but a land of the dead.'   

'Keldor has left the Spellstone here in your world. It is what keeps them animated. It must be destroyed.'

'Then tell us where it is and we shall destroy it', my father said.

'It is not so simple,' she replied. 'The Spellstone has been bonded with a guardian. The stone's essence, if you will, has merged with him and will protect him. And as long as he lives, the Rumiirua will sweep across your land like a plague.'

'He has gone by many names. Sometimes Osiris, sometimes Khenti-Amentiu. He is also called Raab AlMout, which means Lord of the Dead. He will be essentially invincible on your world to your weapons. But I can give you a weapon, a sword, that will break the magic protecting him and destroy the Spellstone's curse' 

As she said this she produced a sword from underneath her feathered cloak and held it out to my father. I have no idea how she had hidden such a thing under there.

'A sword of power?', my father asked.

Teela-Na could not have recoiled more if he had slapped her.

'Ancients no!', she said. 'Such a thing could never be brought and left here. This is just a sword with a special enchantment I prepared before leaving my refuge. But it is sufficient to penetrate Keldor's spell.'

My father clearly had questions about this but kept them to himself, as he reached out to take the sword.

'You will journey to Halldir's Cairn and there you will find him. I am sure he will be well guarded, and a spell must be spoken to activate the enchantment. You must speak this spell within range of both the sword you hold and Raab AlMout. Then strike him down. The magic of the Spellstone will be broken. And once your task is complete the enchantment on your sword will dissipate. The words you must speak are 'Ma qu-a aljamjima alramaadia'. Now, repeat it for me.'

My father did as told, then asked 'You say the magic will dissipate, What will happen to the actual Spellstone? Will he be carrying it?'

'I imagine Keldor still holds the actual stone. Probably the magic will leave Osiris when he dies and return to the stone.'

'So this Keldor... he could do this again? He will still have the magic of the stone even after all we do?', my father asked. 'This is all for nothing?'

'He may indeed regain this power. But it will be our problem on Eternia if he does. I have destroyed his means of traveling into this world to make sure something like this doesn't happen here again. He will certainly retaliate once he discovers what I have done. But it is well past time that we faced him directly. We've underestimated him for far too long. Maybe out of fear, maybe from complacency. We are not ready for a foe of his magnitude. We have had peace for too long. The Masters have become weak. The coming storm on my world is inevitable. But the fires will be like a forge, and from the ashes will rise a hero worthy of the powers I protect. But none of that concerns you.  The fate of your world, that is in your hands now.'

My father looked at the sword he held with doubt and trepidation. 'Is there nothing else you can do to help?', he asked. 'You may be powerless here, but is there no other that could help us?'

This brought a strange look to her face. I could tell she wanted to say something else, but instead she said 'There is one who I think will rise to the challenge, a young prince not much older than you, Deckard. But it is not his time yet. He is not yet ready to meet his destiny. He will be of no help to you '

My father stood and said 'Then I will do what must be done.'

'I knew you would', she said. 'I wish you luck and the power of the ancients'

'I wish you luck against Keldor', my father replied.

Then she turned and looked at me. 'Safe journeys, young Deckard. You have a long road to travel.' And with that she seemed to melt back into the shadows. My father looked down at the sword in his hand as if to convince himself the meeting did in fact happen. He said we should get what rest we could and set out in the morning.

That is my tale. Or most of it I guess. The rest you can probably imagine for yourself, considering I told you at the beginning my father was dead. We set out the next morning. We made the long journey to  Halldir's Cairn. We found Raab AlMout's camp and the Rumiirua that stayed behind as guards. Although why such a creature would need guards is beyond me. 

They weren't paying much attention anyhow. People to eat and all that. My father found a way to sneak around them and confront Raab AlMout directly. He told me to hide and watch while he slew Raab AlMout. I argued, saying that we could attack him together but he would hear none of it. We only had one enchanted sword he said. 

I watched as he jumped down from the rock outcropping above his foe taking him by surprise. He probably would have succeeded too, but that landing knocked some of the wind from him and he was unable to pronounce the spell properly. When he struck what should have been a killing blow the sword actually bounced back as if he had struck stone. 

Perfect end to the story right? Everything we had gone through and it ends like this? Well curse the gods of Tamriel. Those of Eternia also. My father was a good man and didn't deserve to die like he did.

Raab AlMout, after recovering from his shock at being attacked, reached and picked my father up by his neck, and held him there, choking, suspended in the air. The last thing he did was to turn his head somewhat to look at me. He through the sword to me and it landed just before my feet. Then he mouthed the word 'Run.'

Raab AlMout reached out with his other hand, placed it on top of my father's skull and began to squeeze. His screams were indescribable. Then with a sickening crunch, blood and brain seemed to explode from between his fingers as my father's mostly headless body fell to the ground. It was horrifying, but at least the screaming had stopped.

What did I do? What do you think? I picked up the sword and ran. I ran and I ran. And did I hear Raab AlMout laughing behind me? Or was that just my imagination? I know not. Eventually I collapsed. I don't know how long I ran or where to, but when I regained consciousness it was night and I was near a stream.

I drank from it and decided what to do next. What I decided was, I'd write this journal and hope someone else would find it and finish our quest. I'm done with this shit.

Walking dead, evil wizards, sorceresses with enchanted swords, curses, spells, and oh yeah, a creature that crushes skulls one-handed! To Oblivion with this. I'm done. Tamriel can rot. 

歩く死体、邪悪な魔術師達、魔剣の魔女、呪い、呪文、そして、ああ、隻腕の頭蓋砕き！地獄だ。私は終わりだ。タムリエルは腐ってしまう。


Unless you care to save it, that is. 

貴方が全てを救わなければ、現実のものとなってしまう。


I've been traveling by day and writing by night. East this time. Shadow no longer rising to meet me in the morning. I've heard of a town known as Tristram and a land called Sanctuary. I'm headed there, hoping to live out the rest of my days away from all this madness. 

私は昼は旅をして夜に書き記している。今回は東だ。Shadow no longer rising to meet me in the morning. 私はトリストラムとして知られる聖地と呼ばれている町について聞いていた。私はそこに向かい、この狂気から離れて残りの日々を過ごせることを願っている。


At the edge of Skyrim at a place called Broken Helm Hollow, I will leave this journal. If you find it, the first thing you should know is that I hid the enchanted sword at Bloodlet Throne. Go there, find it and go on to Halldir's Cairn and slay the monster that keeps the Rumiirua's curse alive. 

スカイリムの端にあるブロークンヘルムホロウと呼ばれる場所で、私はこの手記を残す。もし貴方がそれを見つけたら、最初に知っておくべきことは、血の玉座に魔法の剣を隠してきたことだ。


And the chant, don't forget the chant. Ma qu-a aljamjima alramaadia.

そして詠唱を、詠唱を忘れないで欲しい。マ・クーア・アルジャムジーマ・アルルマーディア。


I guess that's it. My story. It's much longer than I'd intended. When I started this I criticized Jebidiah for being to long winded, and here I've rambled on longer than he did. How's that for pathetic? I've rambled on longer than Jebidiah Halfwit! I had good intentions, but you know which road is paved with those. At least I never took an arrow to the knee. I've been told that really sucks.

これが終わりなのだろう。私の物語は。思ったよりはずっと長かった。最初は長く巻き込まれてしまったことでジュビディアを責めたものだ、こうして私は彼よりも長く巡っているのだから。


I do hope someone finds this. I hope you find it and have the courage to break the spell of the Rumiirua. I hope you find the sword and use it to kill Raab AlMout. I hope you succeed where we failed. I hope that Teela-Na finds a way to stop Keldor. I hope that somewhere on Eternia, there exists someone who has the power to defeat him.

誰かがこれを見つけることを願っている。貴方がこれを見つけてルミールアの呪文を打ち砕く勇気を持っていることを願っている。貴方が剣を見つけてラーブ・アルモルトを殺すために使ってくれることを願っている。貴方が私達が成し遂げられなかったことを成し遂げられることを願っている。ティーラ・ナがケルドールを止める方法を見つけることを願っている。エターニアのどこかに、彼を倒せるものがいることを願っている。


But most of all I hope to live the rest of my days in peace.

だがなにより私は平和の中で残りの日々を生きたいと願っている。


Fare well, stranger.

さようなら、見知らぬ誰か。


D.C.
